Psalm 12 Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth for
the faithful fail from among the children of men.
They speak vanity, everyone with his neighbor, with flattering lips and with a double heart
do they speak.
The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things.
Who have said, with our tongue will we prevail, our lips are our own, who is Lord over us?
For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, sayeth the
Lord.
I will set him in safety, from him that puffeth at him.
The words of the Lord are pure words, a silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven
times.
Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever.
The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.
Psalm 13 How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord, forever?
How long wilt thou hide thy face from me?
How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily?
How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?
Consider and hear me, O Lord my God, lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death.
Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him, and those that trouble me rejoice when
I am moved.
But I have trusted in thy mercy, my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation.
I will sing unto the Lord, because he hath dealt bountifully with me.
Psalm 14 The fool hath said in his heart, There is no
God.
They are corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth good.
The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any
that did understand and seek God.
They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy.
There is none that doeth good, no, not one.
Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge?
Who eat up my people as they eat bread, and call not upon the Lord?
There were they in great fear, for God is in the generation of the righteous.
Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the Lord is his refuge.
O that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion!
When the Lord bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel
shall be glad.
Psalm 15 Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle?
Who shall dwell in thy holy hill?
He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart.
He that backbiteeth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up
a reproach against his neighbour.
In whose eyes a vile person is contemned, but he honoreth them that fear the Lord.
He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not.
He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent.
He that doeth these things shall never be moved.
Psalm 16 Preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my
trust.
O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord, my goodness extendeth not to
thee, but to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent in whom is all my delight.
Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another God.
Their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips.
The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance, and of my cup thou maintainest my lot.
The lines have fallen unto me in pleasant places, yea, I have a goodly heritage.
I will bless the Lord, who hath given me counsel.
My reigns also instruct me in the night's seasons.
I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand I shall not be moved.
Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth.
My flesh also shall rest in hope.
For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy wand to
the corruption.
Thou wilt shew me the path of life, in thy presence is fullness of joy.
At thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.
Psalm 17.
Hear the right, O Lord, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out
of feigned lips.
Let my sentence come forth from thy presence, let thine eyes behold the things that are
equal.
Thou hast proved mine heart, thou hast visited me in the night, thou hast tried me and shalt
find nothing.
I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress.
Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips, I have kept me from the paths of
the destroyer.
Hold my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.
I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God, incline thy near unto me, and hear
my speech.
Shew thy marvellous loving-kindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand, them which
put their trust in thee, from those that rise up against them.
Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings.
From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies who compass me about, they are enclosed
in their own fat.
With their mouth they speak proudly.
They have now compassed us in our steps.
They have set their eyes bowing down to the earth.
Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret
places.
Arise, O Lord, disappoint him, cast him down, deliver my soul from the wicked, which is
thy sword.
From men which are thy hand, O Lord, from men of the world, which have their portion
in this life, and whose belly thou fillest with thy hid treasure, they are full of children,
and leave the rest of their substance to their babes.
As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness.
I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.
Psalm 18.
I will love thee, O Lord, my strength, for Lord is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer.
My God, my strength, in whom I will trust, my buckler, and the horn of my salvation,
and my high tower.
I will call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised.
So shall I be saved from mine enemies.
The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.
The sorrows of hell compassed me about.
The snares of death prevented me.
In my distress I called upon the Lord, and cried unto my God.
He heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even into his ears.
Then the earth shook and trembled, the foundations also of the hills moved, and were shaken,
because he was wroth.
There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured, coals
were kindled by it.
He bowed in the heavens also, and came down, and darkness was under his feet.
And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly, yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind.
He made darkness his secret place, his pavilion round about him were dark waters, and thick
clouds of the skies.
At the brightness that was before him, his thick clouds passed, hailstones and coals
of fire.
The Lord also thundered in the heavens, and the highest gave his voice, hailstones and
coals of fire.
Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them, and he shot out lightnings, and discomforted
them.
Then the channels of water were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered
at thy rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils.
He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters, he delivered me from my
strong enemy, and from them which hated me, for they were too strong for me.
They prevented me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my stay.
He brought me forth also into a large place, he delivered me because he delighted in me.
The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands hath
he recompensed me.
For I have kept the ways of the Lord, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me.
I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine iniquity.
Therefore hath the Lord recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness
of my hands in his eyesight.
With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful, with an upright man thou wilt shew thyself
upright, with the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure, and with the forward thou wilt shew
thyself forward.
For thou wilt save the afflicted people, but wilt bring down high looks.
For thou wilt light my candle, the Lord my God will enlighten my darkness.
For by thee I have run through a troop, and by my God have I leaped over a wall.
As for God, his way is perfect, the word of the Lord is tried.
He is a buckler to all those that trust in him.
For who is God, saith the Lord, or who is a rock, saith our God?
It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way perfect.
He maketh my feet like hind's feet, and setteth me upon my high places.
He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms.
Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation, and thy right hand hath holden
me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.
Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.
I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them.
Neither did I turn again till they were consumed.
I have wounded them, that they were not able to rise.
They are fallen under my feet.
For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle.
Thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me.
Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate
me.
They cried, but there was none to save them, even unto the Lord, but he answered them not.
Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind.
I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets.
Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people, and thou hast made me the head
of the heathen.
A people whom I have not known shall serve me.
As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me.
The strangers shall submit themselves unto me.
The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close places.
The Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock, and let the God of my salvation be exalted.
It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.
He delivereth me from mine enemies, yea, thou liftest me up above those that rise up against
me.
Thou hast delivered me from the violent man.
Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the heathen, and sing praises unto
thy name.
Great deliverance giveth he to his king, and sheweth mercy to his anointed, to David, and
to his seed for evermore.
Psalm 19.
The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament sheweth his handiwork.
Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge.
There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard.
Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world.
In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his
chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race.
His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it, and there
is nothing hid from the heat thereof.
The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul.
The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple.
The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart.
The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes.
The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever.
The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.
More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey
and the honeycomb.
Moreover by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward.
Who can understand his errors?
Cleanse thou me from secret faults.
Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins.
Let them not have dominion over me.
Then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression.
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O
Lord, my strength and my redeemer.
Psalm 20.
The Lord hear thee in the day of trouble.
The name of the God of Jacob defend thee.
Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of Zion.
Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice, Selah.
Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy counsel.
We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God.
We will set up our banners.
The Lord fulfil all thy petitions.
Now know I that the Lord saveth his anointed.
He will hear him from his holy heaven, with the saving strength of his right hand.
Some trust in chariots, and some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord
our God.
They are brought down and fallen, but we are risen and stand upright.
Save Lord, let the King hear us when we call.
Psalm 21.
The King shall joy in thy strength, O Lord, and in thy salvation how greatly shall he
rejoice.
Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips, Selah.
For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness.
Thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head.
He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of days forever and ever.
His glory is great in thy salvation.
Honor and majesty hast thou laid upon him.
For thou hast made him most blessed forever.
Thou hast made him exceeding glad with thy countenance.
For the King trusteth in the Lord, and through the mercy of the Most High he shall not be
moved.
Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies, thy right hand shall find out those that hate
thee.
Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger.
The Lord shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them.
Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of
For they intended evil against thee.
They imagined a mischievous device, which they are not able to perform.
Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt make ready thine arrows
upon thy strings, against the face of them.
Be thou exalted, Lord, in thine own strength, so we will sing and praise thy power.
Thou shalt make them turn thine arrows upon thy strings, against the face of them.